The goal of a chemical peel is to
reduce wrinkles, uneven color and scars.
They are often used on your face
but can also be used on your neck, chest or hands.
Your dermatologist will apply one or more
chemical solutions to your skin.
This causes the top layer
or layers of your skin to peel off.
Your new skin is usually smoother,
less wrinkled and more even looking.
A chemical peel can be done at
different depths (or strengths),
from light to deep.
A light or superficial peel uses a mild acid.
This peel affects only the
outer most layer of your skin, the epidermis,
to gently remove dead skin cells.
It’s used to improve the appearance of mild
uneven color, fine lines, and rough texture.
A medium peel affects the epidermis and parts of the dermis
(the middle layer of your skin).
It’s used to improve the appearance of wrinkles,
uneven color, and acne scars.
It can also be used to smooth rough skin
and treat some precancerous skin growths.
A deep chemical peel affects
deeper parts of the dermis.
It may offer more dramatic results,
but also takes longer to recover from.
It’s used for deep wrinkles,
scars, or precancerous growths.
After a chemical peel of any depth,
your skin will be red, tight, irritated or swollen
and may look like you have a sunburn.
Your doctor will tell you
how to care for your skin as it heals.